{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Practicum 1\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 The Task\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Replicate Figures 1 and 2 from Bartels (2000), {\i \u8220"Partisanship and Voting Behavior\u8221"}, for the years {\b 2006\u8211-2024} using the {\b Cumulative CCES Dataset}.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 The Details\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab This Practicum is due {\b Thursday, October 23, at 2 PM}. {\i As usual, we will cover the practicum in that class, so late work is not accepted.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Turn your exam in to {\b Blackboard}. You will need to turn in at least two things: an {\b R script file} ({\f1 .R} or {\f1 .qmd}) and a {\b write-up Quarto document} typeset as a {\f1 .pdf}. You may wish to have more than one R script file.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The practicum {\b IS} open-book, open-note, and open-internet, but it {\b IS NOT} open-human. In short: you can use any resource you want, so long as that resource does not involve asking another human a question. {\i (The only exception is that you can ask the professor clarification questions.)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab If you use AI, you must also turn in a record of your prompts as a plain-text {\f1 .txt} file. You {\b MAY} use AI, but {\i only} to ask questions as you design your own work. You {\b MAY NOT} feed the entire practicum itself into a chatbot or other AI tool.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Make sure your write-up document and code script files are {\b cleanly formatted}. You will be evaluated both for the accuracy of your output and the clarity of your code.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Follow all the data and style guidelines we have discussed in class. Your {\f1 .R} files \u8212- once I change the working directory \u8212- should properly execute all commands needed to reproduce the results of your practicum, and should do so without any errors. If your {\f1 .R} file does not do this, the relevant answers will be considered wrong.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab You may find the {\b cumulative CCES/CES files} in the course drive.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab In your write-up, make note of any particular challenges you encountered, as well as any significant differences from what you found when replicating Bartels with the ANES.\sa180\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Good luck!}\par}
}
