{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Problem Set 1\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Before attempting this assignment, be sure to follow the insturctiosn noted in the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "../assignments/assign1.qmd"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Preliminaries
}}}
 page under \u8220"Course Content\u8221".}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submit: .R File (Optional)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In an .R file, write code to answer the following questions. Make sure your file is appropriately titled and headered.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Note: You can submit this R file in Week 2, if you prefer.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Create an object named {\f1 aardvark} that stores a 3 as a single number\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Create a second object named {\f1 boomba} that stores a 6 as a single number\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Create a third object named {\f1 centauri} that is the addition of {\f1 aardvark} and {\f1 boomba}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Create a fourth object named {\f1 diabolical} that is the multiplication {\f1 aardvark} and {\f1 boomba}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Create an object named {\f1 ebullient} that stores three numbers as a vector: 4,5,and 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Create an object named {\f1 fastidious} that stores three numbers as a vector: 8,9, and 11\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab Add {\f1 ebullient} and {\f1 fastidious} together, and store it in an object named {\f1 george}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 8.\tx360\tab Find the mean (average) of {\f1 fastidious}, and store it in an object named {\f1 zoinks}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submit: PDF file (Due Week 1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Answer the following questions and upload as a PDF to Blackboard.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab What is your name and program of study at Syracuse?\line {\i (Optional: provide your pronouns, if you wish.)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab What is your prior experience with statistics, data analysis, R, and computer programming generally?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab What are you hoping to get out of this class?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Please include a picture of yourself!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab It can be anything \u8211- just make sure that you are the only person in the picture so I can clearly identify you.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab What is the mean of the {\f1 fastidious} object from your .R assignment above?\sa180\par}
}
