{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Problem Set 10\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Introduction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For this assignment, you will draw your a series of maps using R. You\u8217'll need the following data:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 election2020.csv} - 2020 Election Results (by state)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 2020results_county.csv} - 2020 Election Results (by county)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Assignment\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Create a map of 2020 election results by state. (You can show state winner or state lean.) Project this map in three different ways:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Mercator Projection\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Albers Projection\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Using \u8220"State Bins\u8221"\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Next, create a map that shows {\i swing} from 2016 to 2020, by state, with:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Albers Projection\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Statebin\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Create the following county level maps for 2016:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Population Density by County (America\u8217's \u8220"urChoropleth\u8221" #1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Percent Black population by County (America\u8217's \u8220"urChoropleth\u8221" #2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Winner of 2016 Presidential Election\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab County Lean in the 2016 Presidential Election\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Create the following county level maps for 2020:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Winner of 2020 Presidential Election\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab County \u8220"Lean\u8221" in the 2020 Presidential Election\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab County Shift, 2016-2020\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab 2024 United States Election Results (by county) may be found {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/VOQCHQ"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
here
}}}
. Filter, manage, and use this data to plot:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab County \u8220"Lean\u8221" in 2024\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab County Shift, 2020-2024\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab County Shift, 2016-2024\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Plot the (rough) location of Syracuse University on a national state map in a big blue star.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab Identify a phenomenon of interest across the United States (it can be points, areas, or otherwise) and plot it. Use good cartography principles in the design of your map.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Tips}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Some of the data you need is found in Healy\u8217's package; some of the data is found in the course drive, and some you need to provide yourself. In particular:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1440 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab 2016 data is provided by Healy\u8217's R library.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1440 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab 2020 data is in our course drive, filtered and managed {\b for} you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1440 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab 2024 data is external, and must be managed {\b by} you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1440 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab You must also provide your own data for Syracuse University\u8217's location, along with whatever data of your own interest you wish to map, for questions 6-7.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The Healy reading, along with our course workshop, covers a substantial portion of the basics of this assignment - make sure to use them as references.\line \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab You\u8217'll be doing a decent amount of merging in this assignment. For reference, we covered {\f1 join} commands back in our week on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "../assignments/assign6.qmd"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
data manipulation
}}}
. The key is to always make sure you know what your unique merge identifier is.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submission\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Turn in 4 things:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Your R script(s).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab A quarto file that addresses or answers the steps above and includes your graphics. Your quarto file can include your R code or your R code can remain separate in your R scripts, with the quarto file reading in figures from project directory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab A compiled quarto file, as a PDF, that includes your maps.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Your original data, if necessary, in a format readable by R. (If you read data directly from a web source in your script, you can skip this step.)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Make sure that your quarto writeup includes a clear definition of your map for question 7, as well as a summary description of what is particularly noteworthy about the features of your map. It should also document the source of the data, and note steps done to manage the data (if any) before your R script(s) took over.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Important}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 To submit your assignment, zip your entire project folder together - including all of the above elements - and upload it to Blackboard. Alternately, you may store everything in a GitHub repo and submit a link to your repository to Blackboard.\par}
}
