{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Problem Set 3\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Before attempting this assignment, be sure to follow the instructions noted in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "../assignments/assign3.qmd"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Week 2
}}}
 page under \u8220"Course Content\u8221".}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submit: .qmd file; HTML file; docx file (Due Week 3)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Create an Quarto file ({\f1 File>>New File>>Quarto Document}). Title it \u8220"Week 3 Homework.qmd\u8221",{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Make sure to not put a special character in the title (like #) - Quarto doesn\u8217't like those and sometimes won\u8217't render your file properly.\par}
} select \u8220"HTML\u8221" output, and {\b uncheck} \u8220"use visual markdown editor\u8221". (You can always switch later.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Use the 2005 British Election study file ({\f1 bes2005subset.csv}) to create a jittered scatterplot of Feelings toward Blair and Feelings on Social Spending.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab In a brief text segment, interpret what the figure shows you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Load the 2000 National Election study file ({\f1 nes2000subset.csv}).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Find the correlation between income and partisanship, and draw a jittered scatter plot of partisanship (Y axis) and income (X-axis)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab In a brief text segment, interpret what the correlation and figure tells you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab Render the document to HTML and docx and zip all three (.qmd, .html, and .docx files) together. Upload the .zip to Blackboard.{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Blackboard doesn\u8217't like .html files, so you won\u8217't be able to upload unless you .zip it.\par}
}\sa180\par}
}
