{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Problem Set 4\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i Before attempting this assignment, be sure to follow the instructions noted in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "../assignments/assign4.qmd"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Week 3
}}}
 page under \u8220"Course Content\u8221".}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Data Work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Setup\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Create a GitHub repository for this assignment. (Don\u8217't forget a readme file and a .gitignore file!) It\u8217's OK if it is a private repository.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Generate a Quarto document (like last week). Title it {\f1 DWV Assignment 4.qmd}. Answer all questions for this assignment in this quarto document.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Practice good file management: keep all documents for this assignment in your assignment folder (github repo) dedicated to just this assignment. It is OK - it\u8217's advisable, actually - to have the datasets themselves in a separate folder.{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 I recommend that you have a folder on your computer where all of your assignments for the class are kept. Inside this folder, you should have a folder for each assignment; you can also have a folder that stores the data. The data folder should not be entered into a github repo; the individual assignments folders can be (or need to be, depending on the assignment.)\par}
}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Part 1. Lines\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Draw a y=4x+3 on a plot that ranges from -20 to +20 on both x and y.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Label the line appropriately next to itself.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Color the line in an interesting color! And make it dashed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab {\b Bonus} Use a combination of the above options (plus others, if you feel like looking them up) to create the wildest looking series of lines on a graph that you can. (Remember, you can overplot lines!)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Part 2. Protected Lands\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Consider the {\f1 protected_lands.csv} dataset. This dataset contains information about a sample of countries sourced from the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://data.worldbank.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
World Bank
}}}
. {\f1 Protected Lands} represents the terrestrial protected land of a country as a percentage of total land area. GDP is represented in the dataset on a per capita ({\f1 gdp_percap}) as well as total basis (with total being measured in billions - {\f1 tot_gdp_billions}).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Find the mean, standard deviation, and range of each of the three variables: protected lands, GDP per capita, and total GDP.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Create a scatterplot where \u8220"protected lands\u8221" is on the Y axis and GDP per capita is on the X axis. Place a title on the graph and labels on the X and Y axis appropriately.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Create a scatterplot where \u8220"protected lands\u8221" is on the Y axis and total GDP is on the X axis. Place a title on the graph and labels on the X and Y axis appropriately.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Regress \u8220"protected lands\u8221" on GDP per capita.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Creat a scatterplot where \u8220"protected lands\u8221" is on the Y axis and GDP per capita is on the X axis. Then, overlay the plot with a best fit line.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Regress \u8220"protected land\u8221" on total GDP.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab Creat a scatterplot where \u8220"protected lands\u8221" is on the Y axis and total is on the X axis. Then, overlay the plot with a best fit line.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submission\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Render your quarto file to .html and .docx.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Push} your completed assignment, including your .html and .docx files, to your GitHub repo.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Either:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Ensure the repo is public, or\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab If it is private, share the repo with me (I\u8217'm {\f1 @jacklreilly} on GitHub).\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab On Blackboard, under assignment 4, place a link to the repo so that I can click straight through to it.\sa180\par}
}
