{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Problem Set 9\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Introduction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For this assignment, you will draw your own social network using R and iGraph. (It is OK if it is relatively simple!)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Assignment\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Please follow these steps:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Identify your chosen network. This can be any network you can think of - from politics, economics, public adminstration, social life, pop culture, literature, science, etc. It just has to be clear on two things:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab What are the nodes of the network?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab What constitutes a tie (edge) between nodes of the network?\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Encode your network into a form readable by R and iGraph. Likely, this will be an adjacency matrix, but could also be an edge list, an adjacency list/node list, or an affiliation matrix.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Read your network into R and into the iGraph package.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Plot the network graph.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Use visualization features to make your network graph visually compelling. Highlight the features of the network you most want to highlight.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Write a short summary (a few sentences is fine) of what you notice about your network.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submission\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Turn in 4 things:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Your R script(s).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab A quarto file that addresses or answers the steps above and includes your graphics. Your quarto file can include your R code or your R code can remain separate in your R scripts, with the quarto file reading in figures from project directory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab A compiled quarto file, as a PDF, that includes your network graphs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Your data (adjacency matrix or edgelist, nodelist) in a format readable by R. (If you read data directly from a web source in your script, you can skip this step.)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Make sure that your quarto writeup includes a clear definition of your network (nodes and edges) as well as a summary description of what is particularly noteworthy about the features of your network. It should also document the source of the data, and note steps done to manage the data (if any) before your R script(s) took over.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 {\b Important}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 To submit your assignment, zip your entire project folder together - including all of the above elements - and upload it to Blackboard. Alternately, you may store everything in a GitHub repo and submit a link to your repository to Blackboard.\par}
}
