{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 3. Data Notebooks in Quarto\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Readings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Lecture: Computing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab In the course drive, find the file {\f1 Week 3 Files.zip}. Unzip the file in the directory on your computer that you use for coursework.{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Windows tries to help you by letting you click directly into .zip files without unzipping them. This lets you see into the file, which is helpful, but prevents you from editing things inside the file, which is not (and will make R throw you errors). So make sure to unzip the file before loading it and rendering.\par}
} Inside the unzipped file, you will find a .qmd file, which has also been compiled into a pdf, html, docx, and rtf files. Read it, and pay special attention to how the .qmd file structure and commands relate to the output in the compiled documents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Recommended reference reading:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b DV}, ch 2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b The Markdown Guide}, <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.markdownguide.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://www.markdownguide.org
}}}
>\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b The Plain Person\u8217's Guide to Plain Text Social Science}, ch 3-4 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://plain-text.co/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://plain-text.co/index.html
}}}
)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Note: The Plain Person\u8217's Guide is a little out of date techinically - some of the tools discussed have newer, and better, versions - but the overlying principles and philosophy are what you should pay attention to}\sa180\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Data & Computational Work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There is no major new software to install. However, we will be rendering text to output document types, like pdf, docx, and html. Docx and html files will render without additional software, but .pdfs need extra bits added. If you would like to compile to PDF, run the following lines of code:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 install.packages("tinytex")}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 tinytex::install_tinytex()}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This places a small tex installation inside R for you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submit: .qmd file; HTML file; docx file\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Create an Quarto file ({\f1 File>>New File>>Quarto Document}). Title it \u8220"Week 3 Homework.qmd\u8221",{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Make sure to not put a special character in the title (like #) - Quarto doesn\u8217't like those and sometimes won\u8217't render your file properly.\par}
} select \u8220"HTML\u8221" output, and {\b uncheck} \u8220"use visual markdown editor\u8221". (You can always switch later.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Use the 2005 British Election study file ({\f1 bes2005subset.csv}) to create a jittered scatterplot of Feelings toward Blair and Feelings on Social Spending.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab In a brief text segment, interpret what the figure shows you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Load the 2000 National Election study file ({\f1 nes2000subset.csv}).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Find the correlation between income and partisanship, and draw a jittered scatter plot of partisanship (Y axis) and income (X-axis)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab In a brief text segment, interpret what the correlation and figure tells you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab Render the document to HTML and docx and zip all three (.qmd, .html, and .docx files) together. Upload the .zip to Blackboard.{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Blackboard doesn\u8217't like .html files, so you won\u8217't be able to upload unless you .zip it.\par}
}\sa180\par}
}
