{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Week 10: Social Networks\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Due This Week: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "../problemsets/ps8.qmd"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Problem Set 8
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Lecture: Social Network Visualization\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Readings & Reference Material\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Core Reading\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Ognyanova, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://kateto.net/network-visualization"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"Static and dynamic network visualization with R\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b DMSS}, ch 13\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Reference Materials\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Newman, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1093/oso/9780198805090.001.0001"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Networks
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab A technical and highly interdisciplinary look at networks, spanning physical networks, biological networks, social networks, and more. Comprehensive, lots of network theory.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Menczer, Fortuanto, and Davis, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1017/9781108653947"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
A First Course in Network Science
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab A short introduction focused on networks in a broad sense, with a focus on computation for network analysis in Python.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Jackson, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://press.princeton.edu/books/paperback/9780691148205/social-and-economic-networks"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Social and Economic Network Analysis
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab As befits the name, a focus on economic and social networks.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Scott, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.4135/9781529716597"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Social Network Analysis
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab An introduction for beginners, with a focus on substance over computation.\sa180\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Network Visualization Examples\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Social Networks has inspired a lot of creativity when it comes to think about things in relational contexts. A few examples are below to spark your interest and imagination ahead of your problem set this week.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/data-science-at-microsoft/network-graphs-analysis-part-2-of-2-visualizing-the-characters-of-hamilton-as-a-social-network-ed61699df319"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Hamilton (Musical)
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://networkofthrones.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Game of Thrones (TV Show and Books)
}}}
 {\i see also news coverage} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://qz.com/650796/mathematicians-mapped-out-every-game-of-thrones-relationship-to-find-the-main-character"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
here
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/glthr/DeMystify"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Myst (Computer Game)
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.martingrandjean.ch/data-visualization-network-gospels/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Biblical Gospels (Religion)
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://evelinag.com/blog/2015/12-15-star-wars-social-network/index.html#.VnAhsTZZG6A"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Star Wars (Movies)
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://syntagmatic.github.io/marvel/?utm_source=chatgpt.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Marvel (Movies/Comics)
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Due Next Week: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "../problemsets/ps9.qmd"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Problem Set 9
}}}
\par}
}
