{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Week 5: Data Manipulation\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b {\i in progress}}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Readings & Reference Material\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Lecture: Structural Data Manipulation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b DMSS}, ch 5, 6, & 7\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b RDS}, chs 3-6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b FCSP}, ch 5.4-5.6\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Data Work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Replication: Browse {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.jstor.org/stable/3186111"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Mondak and Sanders (2003) - \u8220"Tolerance and Intolerance, 1976-1998\u8221"
}}}
. Using the Cumulative General Social Survey (GSS) file, replicate Figures 1, 2, and 5. (Don\u8217't worry about getting the particular value arrows in your graph.)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Extend the analysis to include more recent years as well.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Original Work: explore the codebook for the GSS. Find two interesting variables and create compelling univariate graphs to illustrate their central tendency, distribution, and spread.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submission (Due Week 6)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your completed assignment should include a copy of your .R script file(s) (with comments, etc) used to code the variables and do the analysis, a .quarto file that contains your writeup and figures, and a .PDF file with all of your (properly labeled and attractively laid out) tables/figures.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In your writeup, address the following questions:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Where did you encounter problems with this replication? Was there anything that was particular tricky?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab How would you {\i interpret} (in other words, explain to a general audience) what Mondak and Saunders found in figures 1, 2, and 5?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Has anything changed since 1998 that would alter the substantive takeaway points in their findings?\sa180\par}
}
