{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 4. Version Tracking in GitHub\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b {\i In progress}}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Readings & Reference Material\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab \u8220"Happy Git with R\u8221" {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://happygitwithr.com/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://happygitwithr.com/
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b The Plain Person\u8217's Guide to Plain Text Social Science}, ch 2 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://plain-text.co/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://plain-text.co/index.html
}}}
)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Bryan, Jennifer. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://peerj.com/preprints/3159v2/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"Excuse me, do you have a moment to talk about version control?\u8221"
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Wickham, Hadley. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"Tidy Data\u8221"
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Kuriwaki, Shuri. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.shirokuriwaki.com/programming/kuriwaki_github_handout.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"Git for Students in the Social Sciences: A Pitch
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Computer Work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you do not have one already, create a GitHub account and obtain a GitHub Personal Access Token.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Register a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://happygitwithr.com/github-acct.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
GitHub Account
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab (Optional) Install {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://happygitwithr.com/install-git"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Git
}}}
. {\i Note: this step is only optional if you use the GitHub Desktop Client; if you use any other client, you must install Git at the command line.}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Install a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://happygitwithr.com/git-client.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Git Client
}}}
. I strongly recommend you use the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/apps/desktop"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
GitHub Desktop Client
}}}
, which comes with git built-in, so that you do not have to install git separately (and can thus skip step 2).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Get a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://happygitwithr.com/https-pat"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Personal Access Token
}}}
 and connect your GitHub Desktop Client to GitHub.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab {\b (Optional)} Start an {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://happygitwithr.com/push-pull-github.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
initial repo
}}}
.{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Jargon alert: repo is short for \u8220"repository\u8221".\par}
} We will do this together in workshop this week, as well, but you can get a head start if you like.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Data Work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Setup\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Create a GitHub repository for this assignment. (Don\u8217't forget a readme file and a .gitignore file!) It\u8217's OK if it is a private repository.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Generate a Quarto document (like last week). Title it {\f1 DWV Assignment 4.qmd}. Answer all questions for this assignment in this quarto document.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Practice good file management: keep all documents for this assignment in your assignment folder (github repo) dedicated to just this assignment. It is OK - it\u8217's advisable, actually - to have the datasets themselves in a separate folder.{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 I recommend that you have a folder on your computer where all of your assignments for the class are kept. Inside this folder, you should have a folder for each assignment; you can also have a folder that stores the data. The data folder should not be entered into a github repo; the individual assignments folders can be (or need to be, depending on the assignment.)\par}
}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Part 1. Lines\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Draw a y=4x+3 on a plot that ranges from -20 to +20 on both x and y.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Label the line appropriately next to itself.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Color the line in an interesting color! And make it dashed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab {\b Bonus} Use a combination of the above options (plus others, if you feel like looking them up) to create the wildest looking series of lines on a graph that you can. (Remember, you can overplot lines!)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Part 2. Protected Lands\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Consider the {\f1 protected_lands.csv} dataset. This dataset contains information about a sample of countries sourced from the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://data.worldbank.org"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
World Bank
}}}
. {\f1 Protected Lands} represents the terrestrial protected land of a country as a percentage of total land area. GDP is represented in the dataset on a per capita ({\f1 gdp_percap}) as well as total basis (with total being measured in billions - {\f1 tot_gdp_billions}).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Find the mean, standard deviation, and range of each of the three variables: protected lands, GDP per capita, and total GDP.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Create a scatterplot where \u8220"protected lands\u8221" is on the Y axis and GDP per capita is on the X axis. Place a title on the graph and labels on the X and Y axis appropriately.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Create a scatterplot where \u8220"protected lands\u8221" is on the Y axis and total GDP is on the X axis. Place a title on the graph and labels on the X and Y axis appropriately.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Regress \u8220"protected lands\u8221" on GDP per capita.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab where \u8220"protected lands\u8221" is on the Y axis and GDP per capita is on the X axis. Then, overlay the plot with a line representing the slope.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Regress \u8220"protected land\u8221" on total GDP.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Part 3. National Election Studies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Using {\f1 nes2000subset_age.csv}, regress partisanship on age.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Plot the resulting regression line, and properly label all axes. (Hint: don\u8217't forget to rescale the X axis!)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Color the line! Label the line next to itself with \u8220"OLS Line\u8221"\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submission\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Render your quarto file to .html and .docx.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Push} your completed assignment, including your .html and .docx files, to your GitHub repo.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Either:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Ensure the repo is public, or\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Share the repo with me (I\u8217'm {\f1 @jacklreilly} on GitHub).\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab On Blackboard, under assginment 4, upload a link to the repo so that I can click straight through to it.\sa180\par}
}
