{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Week 1. Course Introduction\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  Prof.\u160 ?Jack Reilly\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  F2025\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Readings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Lecture: Course Introduction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Recommended reference reading:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b DV}, chapter 1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b RDS} chapter 2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b FCSP} chapters 1-2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i We will not cover all of this material in ch 2 this week; don\u8217't get too caught up on things not in course slides or course R scripts}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b DMSS} chapters 1-2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Ignore, for now, things that relate to Database Management Systems (DBSMs) or SQL}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b The Plain Person\u8217's Guide to Plain Text Social Science}, ch 1-2 ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://plain-text.co/index.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://plain-text.co/index.html
}}}
)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\i Note: The Plain Person\u8217's Guide is a little out of date techinically - some of the tools discussed have newer, and better, versions - but the overlying principles and philosophy are what you should pay attention to}\sa180\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Data & Computational Work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you haven\u8217't yet followed the instructions for installing R & RStudio under {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "assign1.qmd"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
\u8220"preliminaries\u8221", now is the time to do so
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submit: .R File 1 (Due Week 2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i (If you did not submit this last week)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In an .R file, write code to answer the following questions. Make sure your file is appropriately titled and headered.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Create an object named {\f1 aardvark} that stores a 3 as a single number\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Create a second object named {\f1 boomba} that stores a 6 as a single number\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Create a third object named {\f1 centauri} that is the addition of {\f1 aardvark} and {\f1 boomba}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Create a fourth object named {\f1 diabolical} that is the multiplication {\f1 aardvark} and {\f1 boomba}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Create an object named {\f1 ebullient} that stores three numbers as a vector: 4,5,and 6\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Create an object named {\f1 fastidious} that stores three numbers as a vector: 8,9, and 11\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab Add {\f1 ebullient} and {\f1 fastidious} together, and store it in an object named {\f1 george}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 8.\tx360\tab Find the mean (average) of {\f1 fastidious}, and store it in an object named {\f1 zoinks}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submit: .R File 2 (Due Week 2)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Create an R file to write all of your code in. Make sure this file is properly titled and headered, etc. Write code that answers the following:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Roll a 12 sided die 50 times. Store the result in an object {\f1 roll}. What is the mean (average) of your 10 die rolls?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Create a object named {\f1 trusttheforce} that stores the following information:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Information for five Star Wars characters: Luke, Han, Leia, Vader, Rey\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab One string variable storing their name: {\f1 name}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab One boolean (true/false) variable indicating if the character can use the force (F - Han, else - T): {\f1 force}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab One boolean (true/false) variable indicating if the character is a Sith (T - Vader, else - F): {\f1 sith}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab One numeric variable indicating the total number of Star Sars movie the character appeared in as a non-baby, non-ghost character (Vader/6, Luke/5, Leia/6, Han/4, Rey/3): {\f1 movies}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Draw a histogram of {\f1 trusttheforce$movies} showing the distribution of number of movies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Let\u8217's take the Obi-Wan perspective, and say it only counts for \u8220"Vader\u8221" to show up if he\u8217's actually wearing the suit after \u8220"betraying and murdering\u8221" Luke\u8217's father.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Replace \u8220"Vader\u8217's\u8221" number of movies with 4.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Draw another histogram of {\f1 trusttheforce$movies} showing the distribution of number of movies according to Obi-Wan\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Load {\f1 npsvisitation0910.csv}. It has three variables: {\f1 park}, {\f1 year2009}, and {\f1 year2010}, with the second two giving the number of visitors to the park in question in 2009 and 2010.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab What is the average number of park visitors in 2009? 2010?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Draw a histogram of the number of park visitors in 2009.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab From the list of parks, identify Yellowstone National Park and Mount Rainier National Park. (They are in rows 359 and 235).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab How many more visitors did each park, individually, have in 2010 compared to 2009? (Subtract one cell from the other)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab What is the difference in the number of visitors between those two parks in 2009? (Subtract one cell from the other)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab How many visitors did the parks have, combined, in 2010? (Add one cell to the other)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab {\b BONUS}:{\super\chftn}{\*\footnote\chftn\~\plain\pard {\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This bonus is for no actual bonus points - it\u8217's an optional problem to help you begin thinking your way through code.\par}
} Roll one twelve sided die 1000 times. Then, roll {\i two} six sided dice (together) 1000 times. Add the two six sided die rolls together, so you can get a \u8220"combined\u8221" roll that goes from 2 to 12 (the way you would in a normal board game). What is the mean of the twelve sided die rolls and two six sided dice rolls? How do the {\i distributions} (histogram) of these two rolls differ?\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Submit this .R file to Blackboard.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Submit: PDF file\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Answer the following questions and upload as a PDF to Blackboard.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Include your histogram showing the distribution of movies. Include both the \u8220"normal\u8221" version and the \u8220"Obi-Wan\u8221" version.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Include your histogram of number of park visitors in 2009.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab How many visitors did Yellowstone and Rainier have in 2009 and 2010, respectively?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab {\b BONUS} If you did the bonus problem, include your histograms for your two die rolls above.\sa180\par}
}
